README.adoc, before:

= Swarm Plugin
:toc:
:toc-placement!:
:toc-title:
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/swarm-plugin/job/master/[image:https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/swarm-plugin/job/master/badge/icon[Build Status]]
https://github.com/jenkinsci/swarm-plugin/graphs/contributors[image:https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/jenkinsci/swarm-plugin.svg[Contributors]]
https://plugins.jenkins.io/swarm[image:https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/v/swarm.svg[Jenkins Plugin]]
https://github.com/jenkinsci/swarm-plugin/releases/latest[image:https://img.shields.io/github/release/jenkinsci/swarm-plugin.svg?label=changelog[GitHub release]]
https://plugins.jenkins.io/swarm[image:https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/i/swarm.svg?color=blue[Jenkins Plugin Installs]]

toc::[]

== Introduction

The Swarm plugin enables nodes to join a nearby Jenkins controller, thereby forming an ad-hoc cluster.
This plugin makes it easier to scale a Jenkins cluster by spinning up and tearing down new nodes, for team members to contribute compute resources to a build farm, or to attach builders that the Jenkins controller can not initiate connections to.

This plugin consists of two pieces:

. A self-contained client that can join an existing Jenkins controller.
. A plugin that needs to be installed on the Jenkins controller to accept Swarm clients.

With the Swarm client, a person who is willing to contribute some of his computing power to the cluster just needs to run a virtual machine with the Swarm client and the cluster gets an additional agent.
Because the Swarm client is running on a separate VM, there is no need to worry about the builds/tests interfering with the host system or altering its settings unexpectedly.

== Getting started

. Install the Swarm plugin from the Update Center.
. Download https://repo.jenkins-ci.org/releases/org/jenkins-ci/plugins/swarm-client/[the Swarm client].
. Run the Swarm client with `java -jar path/to/swarm-client.jar`. There are no required command-line options; run with the `-help` option to see the available options.

== Documentation

* xref:CHANGELOG.adoc[Changelog]
* xref:docs/logging.adoc[Logging and Diagnostics]
* xref:docs/prometheus.adoc[Prometheus Monitoring]
* xref:docs/proxy.adoc[Proxy Configuration]
* xref:docs/security.adoc[Global Security Configuration]

== Available options

`$ java -jar swarm-client.jar -help`

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
|Name |Description
|`-deleteExistingClients` |Delete any existing agent with the same name. (default: false)
|`-description VAL` |Description to be put on the agent.
|`-disableClientsUniqueId` |Disable client's unique ID. (default: false)
|`-disableSslVerification` |Disable SSL verification in the HTTP client. (default: false)
|`-disableWorkDir` |Disable Remoting working directory support and run the agent in legacy mode. (default: false)
|`-e (--env)` |An environment variable to be defined on this agent. It is specified as `key=value'. Multiple variables are allowed.
|`-executors N` |Number of executors (default: number of CPUs)
|`-failIfWorkDirIsMissing` |Fail if the requested Remoting working directory or internal directory is missing. (default: false)
|`-fsroot FILE` |Remote root directory. (default: .)
|`-help (--help, -h)` |Show the help screen (default: false)
|`-internalDir FILE` |The name of the directory within the Remoting working directory where files internal to Remoting will be stored.
|`-jar-cache FILE` |Cache directory that stores JAR files sent from the master.
|`-labels VAL` |Whitespace-separated list of labels to be assigned for this agent. Multiple options are allowed.
|`-labelsFile VAL` |File location with space delimited list of labels. If the file changes, the client is restarted.
|`-master VAL` |The complete target Jenkins URL like `http://server:8080/jenkins/'.
|`-maxRetryInterval N` |Max time to wait before retry in seconds. Default is 60 seconds. (default: 60)
|`-mode MODE` |The mode controlling how Jenkins allocates jobs to agents. Can be either `normal' (use this node as much as possible) or `exclusive' (only build jobs with label expressions matching this node). Default is `normal'. (default: normal)
|`-name VAL` |Name of the agent.
|`-noRetryAfterConnected` |Do not retry if a successful connection gets closed. (default: false)
|`-password VAL` |The Jenkins user API token or password.
|`-passwordEnvVariable VAL` |Environment variable containing the Jenkins user API token or password.
|`-passwordFile VAL` |File containing the Jenkins user API token or password.
|`-pidFile VAL` |File to write PID to. The client will refuse to start if this file exists and the previous process is still running.
|`-prometheusPort N` |If defined, then start an HTTP service on this port for Prometheus metrics. (default: -1)
|`-retry N` |Number of retries before giving up. Unlimited if not specified. (default: -1)
|`-retryBackOffStrategy RETRY_BACK_OFF_STRATEGY` |The mode controlling retry wait time. Can be either `none' (use same interval between retries) or `linear' (increase wait time before each retry up to maxRetryInterval) or `exponential' (double wait interval on each retry up to maxRetryInterval). Default is `none'. (default: NONE)
|`-retryInterval N` |Time to wait before retry in seconds. Default is 10 seconds. (default: 10)
|`-sslFingerprints VAL` |Whitespace-separated list of accepted certificate fingerprints (SHA-256/Hex), otherwise system truststore will be used. No revocation, expiration or not yet valid check will be performed for custom fingerprints! Multiple options are allowed. (default: )
|`-t (--toolLocation)` |A tool location to be defined on this agent. It is specified as `toolName=location'.
|`-tunnel VAL` |Connect to the specified host and port, instead of connecting directly to Jenkins. Useful when connection to Jenkins needs to be tunneled. Can be also HOST: or :PORT, in which case the missing portion will be auto-configured like the default behavior
|`-username VAL` |The Jenkins username for authentication.
|`-webSocket` |Connect using the WebSocket protocol. (default: false)
|`-workDir FILE` |The Remoting working directory where the JAR cache and logs will be stored.
|===

== Issues

Report issues and enhancements in the https://issues.jenkins.io/[Jenkins issue tracker]. Use the `swarm-plugin` component in the `JENKINS` project.

== Contributing

Refer to our https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[contribution guidelines].

Commit message:

README.adoc: since deprecation of master discovery, there are required CLI options now

README.adoc, after:

= Swarm Plugin
:toc:
:toc-placement!:
:toc-title:
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/swarm-plugin/job/master/[image:https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/swarm-plugin/job/master/badge/icon[Build Status]]
https://github.com/jenkinsci/swarm-plugin/graphs/contributors[image:https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/jenkinsci/swarm-plugin.svg[Contributors]]
https://plugins.jenkins.io/swarm[image:https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/v/swarm.svg[Jenkins Plugin]]
https://github.com/jenkinsci/swarm-plugin/releases/latest[image:https://img.shields.io/github/release/jenkinsci/swarm-plugin.svg?label=changelog[GitHub release]]
https://plugins.jenkins.io/swarm[image:https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/i/swarm.svg?color=blue[Jenkins Plugin Installs]]

toc::[]

== Introduction

The Swarm plugin enables nodes to join a nearby Jenkins controller, thereby forming an ad-hoc cluster.
This plugin makes it easier to scale a Jenkins cluster by spinning up and tearing down new nodes, for team members to contribute compute resources to a build farm, or to attach builders that the Jenkins controller can not initiate connections to.

This plugin consists of two pieces:

. A self-contained client that can join an existing Jenkins controller.
. A plugin that needs to be installed on the Jenkins controller to accept Swarm clients.

With the Swarm client, a person who is willing to contribute some of his computing power to the cluster just needs to run a virtual machine with the Swarm client and the cluster gets an additional agent.
Because the Swarm client is running on a separate VM, there is no need to worry about the builds/tests interfering with the host system or altering its settings unexpectedly.

== Getting started

. Install the Swarm plugin from the Update Center.
. Download https://repo.jenkins-ci.org/releases/org/jenkins-ci/plugins/swarm-client/[the Swarm client] on your worker machine or container (JRE 8+ also needed there).
. Run the Swarm client with `java -jar path/to/swarm-client.jar -master JENKINS_URL -username SWARM_ACCOUNT -password...` (note there are several ways to pass a password/token, of varying security; the account should have permissions set up to interact with the swarm-plugin on server side -- see Security document referenced below for details). There are no other required command-line options; run with the `-help` option to see the available options.

== Documentation

* xref:CHANGELOG.adoc[Changelog]
* xref:docs/logging.adoc[Logging and Diagnostics]
* xref:docs/prometheus.adoc[Prometheus Monitoring]
* xref:docs/proxy.adoc[Proxy Configuration]
* xref:docs/security.adoc[Global Security Configuration]

== Available options

`$ java -jar swarm-client.jar -help`

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
|Name |Description
|`-deleteExistingClients` |Delete any existing agent with the same name. (default: false)
|`-description VAL` |Description to be put on the agent.
|`-disableClientsUniqueId` |Disable client's unique ID. (default: false)
|`-disableSslVerification` |Disable SSL verification in the HTTP client. (default: false)
|`-disableWorkDir` |Disable Remoting working directory support and run the agent in legacy mode. (default: false)
|`-e (--env)` |An environment variable to be defined on this agent. It is specified as `key=value'. Multiple variables are allowed.
|`-executors N` |Number of executors (default: number of CPUs)
|`-failIfWorkDirIsMissing` |Fail if the requested Remoting working directory or internal directory is missing. (default: false)
|`-fsroot FILE` |Remote root directory. (default: .)
|`-help (--help, -h)` |Show the help screen (default: false)
|`-internalDir FILE` |The name of the directory within the Remoting working directory where files internal to Remoting will be stored.
|`-jar-cache FILE` |Cache directory that stores JAR files sent from the master.
|`-labels VAL` |Whitespace-separated list of labels to be assigned for this agent. Multiple options are allowed.
|`-labelsFile VAL` |File location with space delimited list of labels. If the file changes, the client is restarted.
|`-master VAL` |The complete target Jenkins URL like `http://server:8080/jenkins/'.
|`-maxRetryInterval N` |Max time to wait before retry in seconds. Default is 60 seconds. (default: 60)
|`-mode MODE` |The mode controlling how Jenkins allocates jobs to agents. Can be either `normal' (use this node as much as possible) or `exclusive' (only build jobs with label expressions matching this node). Default is `normal'. (default: normal)
|`-name VAL` |Name of the agent.
|`-noRetryAfterConnected` |Do not retry if a successful connection gets closed. (default: false)
|`-password VAL` |The Jenkins user API token or password.
|`-passwordEnvVariable VAL` |Environment variable containing the Jenkins user API token or password.
|`-passwordFile VAL` |File containing the Jenkins user API token or password.
|`-pidFile VAL` |File to write PID to. The client will refuse to start if this file exists and the previous process is still running.
|`-prometheusPort N` |If defined, then start an HTTP service on this port for Prometheus metrics. (default: -1)
|`-retry N` |Number of retries before giving up. Unlimited if not specified. (default: -1)
|`-retryBackOffStrategy RETRY_BACK_OFF_STRATEGY` |The mode controlling retry wait time. Can be either `none' (use same interval between retries) or `linear' (increase wait time before each retry up to maxRetryInterval) or `exponential' (double wait interval on each retry up to maxRetryInterval). Default is `none'. (default: NONE)
|`-retryInterval N` |Time to wait before retry in seconds. Default is 10 seconds. (default: 10)
|`-sslFingerprints VAL` |Whitespace-separated list of accepted certificate fingerprints (SHA-256/Hex), otherwise system truststore will be used. No revocation, expiration or not yet valid check will be performed for custom fingerprints! Multiple options are allowed. (default: )
|`-t (--toolLocation)` |A tool location to be defined on this agent. It is specified as `toolName=location'.
|`-tunnel VAL` |Connect to the specified host and port, instead of connecting directly to Jenkins. Useful when connection to Jenkins needs to be tunneled. Can be also HOST: or :PORT, in which case the missing portion will be auto-configured like the default behavior
|`-username VAL` |The Jenkins username for authentication.
|`-webSocket` |Connect using the WebSocket protocol. (default: false)
|`-workDir FILE` |The Remoting working directory where the JAR cache and logs will be stored.
|===

== Issues

Report issues and enhancements in the https://issues.jenkins.io/[Jenkins issue tracker]. Use the `swarm-plugin` component in the `JENKINS` project.

== Contributing

Refer to our https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[contribution guidelines].
